# Exceptions

Descendants of class Exception are used to communicate between Kernel#raise and rescue statements in begin ... end blocks. Exception objects carry information about the exception – its type (the exception’s class name), an optional descriptive string, and optional traceback information. Exception subclasses may add additional information like NameError#name.

Programs may make subclasses of Exception, typically of StandardError or RuntimeError, to provide custom classes and add additional information. 

### IOError --> Raised when an IO operation fails.
```
File.open("/etc/hosts") {|f| f << "example"}
  #=> IOError: not opened for writing

File.open("/etc/hosts") {|f| f.close; f.read }
  #=> IOError: closed stream
```

### NameError 
Raised when a given name is invalid or undefined.
```
puts foo

raises the exception:

NameError: undefined local variable or method `foo' for main:Object
```

### RuntimeError 
A generic error class raised when an invalid operation is attempted.
```
[1, 2, 3].freeze << 4

raises the exception:

RuntimeError: can't modify frozen Array
```

### NotImplementedError 
Raised when a feature is not implemented on the current platform. For example, methods depending on the fsync or fork system calls may raise this exception if the underlying operating system or Ruby runtime does not support them.


### StopIteration 
Raised to stop the iteration, in particular by Enumerator#next. It is rescued by Kernel#loop.
```
loop do
  puts "Hello"
  raise StopIteration
  puts "World"
end
puts "Done!"

produces:

Hello
Done!
```

### TypeError 
Raised when encountering an object that is not of the expected type.
```
[1, 2, 3].first("two")

raises the exception:

TypeError: no implicit conversion of String into Integer
```

### SystemExit 
Raised by exit to initiate the termination of the script.
